== Events ==

=== January ===
2 January – Rail fares in England, Scotland and Wales rise by 1.1%, in line with current inflation rates.
3 January – Islamic State militants release a video that depicts the killing of five men who it says were spying for Britain, and also threatened attacks in the UK. The main figure in the video was subsequently believed to be Siddhartha Dhar, a British radical Islamist.
4 January – As strong winds and heavy rain continue to batter parts of Scotland, with more than 30 flood warnings issued by SEPA, the owner of historic Abergeldie Castle is forced to evacuate the 16th century tower house in Aberdeenshire after the River Dee sweeps away land behind the property, leaving it only a few feet from the water. – It is announced that strikes for three days in January and February by junior doctors in England are back on after talks with the government break down.
6 January – Labour MPs Jonathan Reynolds and Stephen Doughty quit over the sacking of the shadow Europe minister Pat McFadden, after party leader Jeremy Corbyn reshuffles his shadow cabinet and makes controversial changes within his team.
9 January – Arthur Simpson-Kent, the partner of former ''EastEnders'' actress Sian Blake who was murdered alongside her two sons in December, is arrested in Ghana on suspicion of her murder. – Scotland's First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, announces that every household, business or charity in the country directly affected by flood water will get a grant of £1,500.
11 January – In the aftermath of Jeremy Corbyn's reshuffle of the Labour Party, Shadow Attorney General Catherine McKinnell resigns, citing party infighting, family reasons and the desire to speak in Parliament beyond her legal portfolio. – Arlene Foster becomes the first women to lead the Democratic Unionist Party and becomes Northern Ireland First Women First Minister.
12 January – Junior doctors in England providing non-emergency care strike for 24 hours in a dispute with Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt over pay and working hours.
13 January – MPs give initial support to the idea of England adopting an official national anthem.
14 January – The gang of "brazen burglars" involved in the £14m Hatton Garden jewellery heist, dubbed the "largest burglary in English legal history", face jail after the final three are convicted of involvement. – The Metropolitan Police announce that an extra 600 armed officers are to be trained and patrols more than doubled to help counter the threat of a terrorist attack in London.
15 January – Tim Peake conducts the first ever spacewalk by an "official" British astronaut, stepping outside an ISS airlock just after 13:00 GMT.
17 January – For the first time, the typical pay of a Scottish worker rises above those in England, according to a new study by the Resolution Foundation.
20 January – Unemployment rates fall to 5.1%, their lowest level in almost a decade, but figures show that wage growth has slowed.
21 January – An inquiry finds that the murder of British ex-Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006 in London was "probably" approved by Russian President Vladimir Putin. – Figures show that murders and killings in England and Wales have increased to their highest level for five years, largely due to an abnormally high number of deaths in June when 75 people were killed.
28 January – After three weeks of appeals, Camelot receive a "valid claim" for the record breaking £33m Lotto jackpot prize drawn on 9 January.
29 January – The last Land Rover Defender rolls off the production line at Solihull, ending 68 years of production.

=== February ===
1 February – Scientists are given the go-ahead by regulators to genetically modify human embryos which were to be destroyed in seven days.
2 February – Supermarket retailer Sainsbury's announces it will offer £1.3 billion to the home retailer Argos to win control over its home retail group.
3 February – The High Court gives permission for Lord Lucan to be declared dead, and for a death certificate to be issued 42 years after his disappearance.
6 February – Britain's most famous steam locomotive, the ''Flying Scotsman'', returns to public service after a 10-year restoration project.
8 February – Storm Imogen hits Britain, causing thousands of power outages and structural damage across the country, along with disruption for many commuters.
10 February – Junior doctors walk out in their second recent strike over Saturday working arrangements, causing disruption to medical services.
12 February – After many years as print newspapers, it is announced that the UK newspapers ''The Independent'' and the ''Independent on Sunday'' will cease to print and become online-only at the end of March. Its stablemate, the ''i'', will be sold to Johnston Press. – Work begins to join the Leicestershire and Nottinghamshire sections of the preserved Great Central Railway, by filling in the Loughborough Gap. – A temporary footbridge is opened over the River Wharfe at Tadcaster, North Yorkshire, reuniting the town following the damage done to the original bridge in the December 2015 floods.
13 February – All four members of British indie pop group, Viola Beach, along with the band's manager, are killed in a car crash in Sweden.
15 February – A Virgin Atlantic flight heading for New York City turns back to London Heathrow Airport after a laser beam is shone into the plane's cockpit and injures one of the co-pilots.
16 February – BBC Three becomes the first UK television network to become online only, having broadcast for its final night after 13 years as a television channel.
19 February – Royal Mail announce that the price of first class stamps will increase by one penny.
20 February – David Cameron announces that Britain will hold a referendum on the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union on 23 June.
21 February – Mayor of London Boris Johnson controversially announces he is to defy David Cameron, and campaign for the UK to leave the European Union.
22 February – The pound hits its lowest level against the dollar, falling down as much as 2.4%, in almost seven years amid concerns about a possible exit from the European Union.
23 February – A major incident is declared as one person dies, and three are left missing after an explosion at Didcot Power Station in Oxfordshire. – Ebola nurse Pauline Cafferkey is admitted to hospital again for the third time after first contracting the virus in Sierra Leone in 2014. – It is announced that the new Crossrail line in London will be called the "Elizabeth Line", after Queen Elizabeth II.
26 February – Six Rotherham individuals, including three brothers and their uncle, who systematically groomed, sexually assaulted and raped fifteen teenage girls are sentenced to a combined 103 years in prison. – Three British tourists fall to their deaths after being taken to the Datanla waterfalls by an unlicensed tour guide in Da Lat, Vietnam.

=== March ===
4 March – MPs vote narrowly against abolishing ''God Save the Queen'' and replacing it with an England-only anthem at football and rugby matches involving England.
7 March – A teenager who stabbed 16-year old Bailey Gwynne to death at Cults Academy secondary school in Aberdeen in October 2015, is found guilty of culpable homicide. – Official tourist figures for 2015 show the British Museum remains the most popular attraction in the United Kingdom.
9 March – Four of the gang of "brazen burglars" involved in the Hatton Garden jewellery heist are sentenced to seven years' imprisonment, while a fifth is given six years. – Junior doctors strike for the third time over new contracts, with NHS England saying that more than 5,000 operations have been cancelled as a result.
11 March – The OECD warns the "Brexit" will be bad for the UK and Europe and the global marketplace as the organisation predicts the UK will cease to be as attractive a destination for inward investment if it leaves the EU.
15 March – A blaze damages the roof and upper floor of Wythenshawe Hall, a historic house in Greater Manchester.
16 March – Chancellor George Osborne announces the Budget for 2016 and the year ahead.
18 March – Iain Duncan Smith resigns as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions claiming that he came under pressure from the Treasury to "salami slice" welfare, and voicing his objection to £4bn of planned cuts to disability benefits announced in the Budget. His resignation comes as the government signals its intention to retreat on the proposals. Duncan Smith is succeeded in the post by Stephen Crabb.
19 March – England win the Six Nations Grand Slam—their first since 2003—after defeating France to become the 2016 champions.
20 March – Five people from Derry in Northern Ireland are drowned after a car plunges into Lough Swilly off the pier at Buncrana in the Irish Republic.
21 March – Clayton Williams, the car thief who ran over and killed PC Dave Phillips in Merseyside in October 2015, is found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 20 years in jail. – Brian Reader, the ringleader in the Hatton Garden jewellery heist, and the last of the gang to be sentenced, is given more than six years in jail.
22 March – The Foreign Office warns against all but essential travel to Brussels, Belgium following three bombings in the city carried out by ISIL, in which at least two British people were injured. Security at airports, ports, Tube and major railway stations in the UK is stepped up as Prime Minister David Cameron warns of "a very real terror threat".
23 March – Drivers on London Underground's Piccadilly line go on strike for 24 hours over "bullying".
25 March – The Foreign Office confirms that one Briton, David Dixon from Nottingham, was killed in the Brussels bombings on 22 March.
26 March – An investigation is launched after an audience member was injured by a chain that fell from production rigging during an Adele concert at Glasgow's SSE Hydro.
27 March – The Cambridge University men's rowing eight beat their Oxford counterparts to win the 162nd Boat Race, while in the women's race Cambridge are defeated by Oxford.
28 March – Storm Katie rips through parts of Britain through the Easter weekend and many parts of the country suffer damage. The storm causes disruption with many flights cancelled or diverted as a result.
29 March – British nationals are involved in the hijacking of Egypt Air Flight 181 by an Egyptian-born professor who was in a dispute over his ex-wife seeking asylum.
30 March – British steel maker Tata Steel reports that it will sell off its British operations in a move to save money, leaving many thousands of jobs at risk, including those at the large Port Talbot steelworks in Wales.
31 March – Prime Minister David Cameron and his fellow MPs cut short their spring break and return to the UK for an emergency meeting on the planned closure of the Tata Steel works.

=== April ===
1 April – A new national living wage comes into force in the United Kingdom, requiring employers to pay all workers over 25 years old at least £7.20 per hour.
2 April – Robin Knox-Johnson, founder of the Clipper Round the World Yacht Race, promises an investigation after a participant, 40-year-old Sarah Young from London, was washed overboard and killed while participating in the race. Young, who died the previous day, will be buried at sea because of her boat's current distance from landfall.
3 April – Prime Minister David Cameron comes under scrutiny over tax havens after the leaking of the Panama Papers, which show British companies are using the Panama-based law firm Mossack Fonseca to fund their offshore accounts and hide their tax funds from HMRC. Labour suggests direct rule over the British Overseas Territories if they do not comply with the existing tax laws.
6 April – The 2016 Dog Microchipping Legislation comes into force, requiring every dog in England, Scotland and Wales to be micro-chipped if they are over eight weeks old. (This law had already been introduced in Northern Ireland, in 2012).
7 April – A junior doctors' strike over pay disputes enters its second day, with over 5,000 operations and procedures being postponed. – Prime Minister David Cameron, and his wife Samantha, admit that they owned shares in an offshore trust set up by Ian Cameron, David's late father, before selling them in 2010 for £30,000.
9 April – Rule The World, ridden by David Mullins and trained by Mouse Morris, wins the 2016 Grand National.
10 April – English golfer Danny Willett wins the 2016 Masters Tournament, the first time a Briton has won the tournament since Nick Faldo in 1996.
12 April – Prime Minister David Cameron comes out to say that wealth is 'not a dirty word' following the tax row over his earnings forcing him to reveal his financial affairs. – A memorial service is held at Westminster Abbey for the British victims of the 2015 Sousse attacks, attended by the Prime Minister and Prince Harry.
13 April – Stoke Gifford Parish Council in Gloucestershire becomes the first council in the UK to charge runners who use one of its parks and those who participate in the weekly park fun run events.
14 April – In the final report following the Shoreham Airshow disaster in August 2015, the Civil Aviation Authority tightens the rules of all future airshows over safety fears.
15 April – The European Union membership referendum campaign gets underway in the UK as both sides prepare to persuade voters to decide whether they want to leave or remain in the EU when the referendum takes place in June.
16 April – Thousands of people take part in a protest against austerity cuts in central London, including the Shadow Chancellor, John McDonnell.
17 April – Archaeologists record the well-preserved remains of a Roman villa at Brixton Deverill in Wiltshire, which had previously been noticed when a homeowner, while digging to lay electric cables, accidentally discovered the remains on his land in February 2015.
18 April – Thousands, including several celebrities, turn up to pay their final respects to the late comedian Ronnie Corbett at his funeral at Shirley in south London. – It is confirmed that at least one Briton, 33-year-old nun Sister Clare Theresa Crockett from Derry in Northern Ireland, was killed in the 2016 Ecuador earthquake.
21 April – Queen Elizabeth II marks her 90th birthday.
22 April – The Bank of England announces that artist William Turner is to appear on the reverse of the English £20 note in 2020.
25 April – The Royal Bank of Scotland announces that author Nan Shepherd is to appear on the obverse of its £5 note, making her the second woman to appear on RBS notes after Mary Somerville. – The British high street retailer British Home Stores (BHS) files for administration, putting thousands of jobs at risk.
26 April – A jury at a coroner's court in Warrington declares that the victims of the Hillsborough disaster of 1989 were unlawfully killed. – Junior doctors go on strike again, this time including those providing emergency care for the first time. – The British menswear retailer Austin Reed files for administration, putting 1,200 jobs at risk.
27 April – Naz Shah, the Labour MP for Bradford West, is suspended from the Party after making disparaging comments about Israel on Facebook.
28 April – An influential think-tank calls for a wholesale privatisation of the BBC to combat its left-wing bias. – The Labour Party's anti-Semitism row intensifies as Ken Livingstone is suspended from the Party after making comments in defence of Naz Shah.
29 April – Philip Hammond becomes the first UK Foreign Secretary to visit Cuba since 1959, where he says he is "keen to forge links". – British police state their belief that Madeleine McCann was abducted during a botched robbery, and may still be alive. – Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn announces the launch of an independent inquiry into allegations of anti-Semitism within the party.

=== May ===
2 May – For the first time in its history, Leicester City wins the 2016 Premier League, defying all odds.
3 May – Thousands of parents illegally take their children out of classes as part of an unprecedented one-day pupils’ “strike” over new, tougher tests for seven-year-olds.
5 May – UK local and Police and crime commissioner elections, as well as elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly, Welsh Assembly and Scottish Parliament are held.
7 May – The Labour MP Sadiq Khan is sworn in as mayor of London, succeeding Boris Johnson and becoming London's first Muslim mayor.
12 May – The Prime Minister, David Cameron, announces that foreign firms who own property in the UK must declare their assets publicly in a bid to stamp out corruption, ahead of a meeting of world leaders in London.
12–15 May – A special celebration takes place in the grounds of Windsor Castle in celebration of the Queen's 90th birthday.
14 May – In women's association football, Arsenal Ladies beat Chelsea Ladies 1–0 to win the 2016 FA Women's Cup Final, the fourteenth time Arsenal have won the competition.
15 May – Manchester United's final match of the 2015–16 Premier League season, against Bournemouth is abandoned after a suspect package is found at Old Trafford requiring the stadium to be evacuated. The package turns out to have been part of a training exercise staged at Old Trafford some days before the match. The game, rescheduled for 17 May, sees Man U defeat Bournemouth 3–1. An estimated 35,000 seats were left unfilled, a record for matches in the Premier League. – At least seventeen people are injured after a number 18 bus crashes into a shop front in Harlesden, west London.
18 May – The government's planned new laws are set out by the Queen in her annual speech, which include a large overhaul on prison laws and support for a spaceport and driverless cars.
20 May – Introduction of plain packaging for tobacco products. – Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirms that at least one Briton is among the 66 passengers aboard the EgyptAir flight MS804 that mysteriously crashed on 19 May. – One woman is left critically ill and three others seriously injured after they are stabbed by a man near a Sainsbury's branch car park in Hampton, west London. – The convicted murderer who scaled the walls of Buckingham Palace on 18 May is jailed for four months on counts of trespassing and criminal damage.
24 May – Bus drivers in Greater Manchester stage a one-day strike in dispute over pay and conditions over their working hours. – The Blackwall Tunnel in London is closed after petrol spills from an articulated lorry in the tunnel, causing major traffic queues.
25 May – A digger falls off a lorry at Rutherglen near Glasgow, crushing a car 'filled with passengers'.
31 May – A service is held at St Magnus Cathedral at Kirkwall in Orkney to mark the centenary of the Battle of Jutland. – Efforts to find a buyer for British menswear retailer Austin Reed fail, and the firm is to be wound down, with the loss of up to 1,000 jobs.

=== June ===
1 June – Archaeologists identify a Roman object found during construction of Bloomberg's new offices in the City of London as the oldest known hand-written document in the United Kingdom, dating back to AD 54. – A coroner rules that inquests into the deaths of 21 people in the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings are to be reopened, due to a "wealth of evidence that still has not been heard".
2 June – Efforts to find a buyer for British retailer British Home Stores (BHS) fail, and the department store is to be wound down with the loss of up to 11,000 jobs.
6 June – Convicted sex offender Richard Huckle is sentenced to 22 life sentences after admitting 71 charges of sex abuse against children in Malaysia.
10–12 June – National commemorations mark the Queen's 90th birthday.
12 June – UEFA threatens to disqualify England from Euro 2016 after "totally unacceptable" violent hooliganism between England and Russia fans during an England-Russia game on 11 June.
13 June – Vigils are held across the UK in memory of the 49 people killed in a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, in solidarity with the LGBT community. Meanwhile, UK police review security for large-scale public events and examine forthcoming Gay Pride celebrations following the killings.
16 June – Labour MP Jo Cox dies at Leeds General Infirmary after being shot and stabbed as she prepared to hold a meeting with constituents in Birstall, West Yorkshire. Police arrest a 52-year-old male suspect.
17 June – The result of the Tooting by-election is declared, after a count which was briefly suspended in honour of Jo Cox.  The winner is the Labour Party candidate Rosena Allin-Khan.
18 June – British astronaut Tim Peake returns to Earth after his six-month stay on the International Space Station.
21 June – Both sides of the referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union take part in the biggest live debate at Wembley Arena on a special edition of ''Question Time'' on the BBC. Panelists include former Mayor of London Boris Johnson, for Leave, and his successor Sadiq Khan for Remain. – Ben Butler is jailed for a minimum of 23 years after he is convicted of murdering his six-year-old daughter Ellie at the Old Bailey; the girl died eleven months after being returned to Butler's custody following a previous incident in which he was accused of violence against her.
23 June – A referendum is held in the UK and Gibraltar on the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union, the first of its kind since the 1975 referendum on Britain's membership of the then European Economic Community.
24 June – The United Kingdom votes to leave the European Union in a vote of 51.9% to 48.1%, in a record voting turnout of 72%. England and Wales vote strongly for leave, while London, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar back remain.  The United Kingdom becomes the first ever country within the 59-year history of the organisation to vote to secede from the European Union. – David Cameron resigns as Leader of the Conservative Party, announcing he is to step down as Prime Minister by October, claiming a "fresh leadership" is needed in the wake of a vote to leave. – London's stock market plunges more than 8% in the wake of the result, with the pound falling to its lowest level against the dollar since 1985 as markets react.
26 June – Several Labour Party shadow cabinet ministers quit, with many more expected, in protest at Jeremy Corbyn's leadership and "lacklustre" referendum campaign. Corbyn issues a statement in response, vowing to stand in any new leadership election, and to reshape his shadow cabinet over the next 24 hours. – First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon warns she could persuade the Scottish Parliament to veto the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, after 62% of Scotland voted to remain in the referendum.
27 June – Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne makes a statement to calm the markets, claiming the UK is ready to face the future "from a position of strength" and indicating there won't be an immediate emergency Budget. – Ratings agency Standard & Poor's state the referendum result could lead to "a deterioration of the UK's economic performance, including its large financial services sector" as the United Kingdom loses its top AAA credit rating. – England are knocked out of UEFA Euro 2016 after losing to Iceland in a disappointing last-16 defeat of 2–1. England manager Roy Hodgson resigns in the wake of the result.
28 June – A motion of no-confidence by Labour MPs in leader Jeremy Corbyn is passed by a 172 to 40 vote. However, Corbyn reiterates that he will not resign.
30 June – Michael Gove and Theresa May join Stephen Crabb in announcing their candidacies for leadership of the Conservative Party and subsequently Prime Minister. Andrea Leadsom and Liam Fox also confirm their intentions to run, while Boris Johnson, a front runner for the job according to political analysts, surprisingly declares his intentions not to campaign.

=== July ===
1 July – A two-minute silence is observed at 7.28 a.m. throughout the United Kingdom to commemorate the centenary of the Battle of the Somme. The art event ''We’re Here Because We’re Here'' is staged across the U.K. by Jeremy Deller to mark the same event. – Wales qualify for the semi-final of Euro 2016 after beating Belgium 3-1, the team's most significant victory since 1958.
4 July – United Kingdom Independence Party leader Nigel Farage resigns, saying his "political ambition had been achieved" with the UK voting to leave the European Union.
5 July – Theresa May wins the first round of the contest to become the next Conservative Party leader and Prime Minister, with 165 of the 329 votes cast by Conservative MPs. Liam Fox, who comes last with 16 votes, is eliminated, and Stephen Crabb who receives 34 votes, decides to withdraw from the race.
6 July – The Chilcot Inquiry report into the Iraq War is released, more than seven years after the inquiry was first announced, showing that the UK went to war before peaceful options were exhausted, that military action was not the "last resort", ill-prepared troops were sent into battle with inadequate plans for the aftermath, and that the threat from Saddam Hussein was overstated; ultimately rejecting former Prime Minister Tony Blair's case for the 2003 invasion.
7 July – Michael Gove is the next candidate to be eliminated from the Conservative Party leadership election, receiving just 46 votes in the final ballot. It leaves Theresa May and Andrea Leadsom as the final contenders in the race to become party leader and Prime Minister, with the final result announced on 9 September. – A wall collapses at a recycling site at Nechells in Birmingham, killing five workmen at the site.
10 July – Lewis Hamilton wins the 2016 British Grand Prix for the fourth time and third time in a row for |Mercedes, the first driver to win the British Grand Prix three times in a row. – Andy Murray wins the Wimbledon Men's Singles title for the second time, beating Canadian 6th seed Milos Raonic in straight sets in the final. This is Murray's third Grand Slam title in total. – Angela Eagle announces her Labour Party leadership bid against current leader Jeremy Corbyn, triggering a leadership election with a result scheduled for 24 September.
11 July – Theresa May is announced as the Conservative Party leader (and Prime Minister-designate), after Andrea Leadsom withdraws from the leadership election. May promises to build a "better Britain" and make the UK's exit from the European Union a success.
13 July – David Cameron officially tenders his resignation as Prime Minister to the Queen, and is succeeded by his former Home Secretary Theresa May. – May subsequently begins to announce her cabinet, with Philip Hammond as the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, Amber Rudd as Home Secretary, Boris Johnson as Foreign Secretary, and David Davis appointed in the new Exiting the European Union Secretary post.
18 July – MPs vote to back the renewal of the UK's Trident nuclear weapons programme, in a vote of 472 to 117.
19 July – The UK experiences the hottest day of the year so far, with temperatures up to 35C in south-east England. – A man murders two women in a shooting near a swimming pool in Spalding, Lincolnshire. The suspected gunman is among the three dead. – Angela Eagle pulls out of the Labour leadership election, leaving Owen Smith, who announced his bid on 13 July, to face Jeremy Corbyn in the contest.
21 July – A serviceman is threatened with a knife near RAF Marham in Norfolk in an attempted abduction. Norfolk Police launch a manhunt for two suspects, and state they are "unable to discount terrorism" as a motive.
22 July – Data from IHS Markit's PMI shows the UK economic activity fell to 47.7 in July, the lowest level since April 2009 and falling at its fastest rate since the aftermath of the 2009 financial crisis.
24 July – Chris Froome wins the Tour de France for the second year running and third time overall. Froome's victory means that a British rider has won four of the last five editions of the race.
25 July – One man is killed and two people injured in a shooting at a private pool party in Headley, Surrey.
28 July – EDF approves investment in the first new nuclear power plant to be built in the UK in 20 years at Hinkley Point, Somerset; however, the government delay a final decision, calling for it to be reviewed by the autumn.
31 July – Theresa May vows that Britain will lead the fight against modern slavery, promising to make it her mission to help rid the world of the "barbaric evil". – Steven Woolfe is excluded from the race to become UKIP's new leader after submitting his papers late.

=== August ===
1 August – Muhiddin Mire is sentenced to life imprisonment for the 2015 Leytonstone tube station attack. – Permission is given to enlarge the Yorkshire Dales and Lake District National Parks in northern England.
3 August – A woman is killed and five other people are injured in a mass stabbing in Russell Square, London.
4 August – The Bank of England cuts interest rates from 0.5% to 0.25% – a record low and the first cut since 2009. – Dame Lowell Goddard tenders her resignation as chairwoman of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse to Home Secretary Amber Rudd with no explanation.
5 August – Team GB begin competing in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. – Black Lives Matter protestors block roads in Nottingham, Birmingham and the M4 motorway at Heathrow, in a day of anti-racism activism. – A blaze damages a market hall and bowling alley at Great Yarmouth in Norfolk.
8 August – A five-day strike by workers on Southern Rail begins, disrupting train services between London, Surrey and Sussex, the longest rail strike in the United Kingdom since 1968.
10 August – The RMT and TSSA unions confirm that Eurostar rail workers are to take seven days of strike action this month in a dispute over their work-life balance. – Four people are killed and twelve left injured in an eight-vehicle pile-up on the A34 road in Berkshire.
12 August – Mumin Sahin and Emin Ozmen are jailed for a total of 42 years for their part in the UK's largest ever drugs haul, in which 3.2 tonnes of cocaine worth £512 million was seized from a vessel in the North Sea.
16 August – The radical Islamic cleric Anjem Choudary and his assistant Mohammed Mizahnur Rahman are both found guilty at the Old Bailey of "inviting Islamic State". – The world's largest ever wind farm, consisting of 300 turbines producing 1.8 gigawatts of clean energy, is approved for construction off the Yorkshire coast.
17 August – The Airlander 10 hybrid airship, the world's largest aircraft at 92&nbsp;m (302&nbsp;ft) in length and 38,000 m³ (1,300,000 cu ft) in volume, has its maiden civilian flight in Bedfordshire.
19 August – The Night Tube launches, providing commuters nighttime services on the London Underground.
21 August – Team GB finish competing at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. They finish second in the medal table, with 27 golds, 23 silvers, and 17 bronze medals; their best Olympic result in over a century.
25 August – Five men are killed at Camber Sands, Sussex, after they get into trouble with extremely fast and unpredictable tides at the resort.
27 August – The M20 motorway in Kent is closed after a lorry hits a footbridge, causing it to collapse. It causes severe travel disruption on one of the busiest travel days of the year. – Beachgoers are urged to stay safe on the coast over the bank holiday weekend by the RNLI, following twelve sea deaths around the UK in the past week.
28 August – The last BHS stores shut for the final time after 88 years, with a loss of up to 11,000 jobs.
31 August – The BMA union agrees to fresh industrial action by junior doctors over a new contract that ministers are imposing on them. – A woman and a boy are killed after a car being chased by police mounts a pavement and crashes into a family in Penge, south-east London.

=== September ===
1 September – The Francis Crick Institute, Europe's largest biomedical research facility, opens in London.
2 September – Talks to avert junior doctors taking strike action fail. – Nicholas Chamberlain, the Bishop of Grantham becomes the first Church of England bishop to openly declare he is gay and in a relationship.
6 September – Labour MP Keith Vaz resigns as chairman of the Home Affairs Committee after newspaper claims he paid for the services of two male escorts. – The radical Islamic cleric Anjem Choudary is sentenced to five years in prison.
7 September – Great Britain begin competing in the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
8 September – The Tate announces that Sir Nicholas Serota will step down as Director in 2017 after 28 years, and become leader of the Arts Council England.
9 September – Prime Minister Theresa May announces controversial proposals as part of a major education reform, including lifting the ban on new grammar schools, tougher tests for private schools and a relaxation of faith schools, as part of a plan to create a "truly meritocratic Britain".
12 September – Former Prime Minister David Cameron resigns from the House of Commons.
13 September – The first polymer banknote in the United Kingdom, the new £5 note, enters circulation. – The BBC loses the rights to broadcast ''The Great British Bake Off'' after Love Productions sign a new contract to broadcast the show on Channel Four in 2017. – The UK experiences its hottest September day since 1911, with 34.4&nbsp;°C recorded in Gravesend, Kent.
15 September –  The government approves the Hinkley Point C nuclear power plant, which will cost £18bn, and says it will introduce "new safeguards" to future projects.
16 September – Flash flooding hits parts of England as thunderstorms dump almost half a month's rainfall in some areas overnight. – Diane James is elected the new leader of UKIP.
23 September – Tracy Brabin, an actress who appeared in ''Coronation Street'', is selected as Labour's candidate for the by-election in Batley and Spen, the constituency left vacant by the death of Jo Cox.
24 September – Jeremy Corbyn is re-elected as leader of the Labour Party following an unsuccessful challenge by Owen Smith.
27 September – Alton Towers operator Merlin Attractions is fined £5m over the Smiler rollercoaster crash that injured 16 people, including two teenagers who required leg amputations. – Glasgow East MP Natalie McGarry is charged with multiple counts of fraud.

=== October ===
2 October – Prime Minister Theresa May announces that she will trigger Article 50 by the end of March 2017 in a speech at the annual Conservative Party Conference in Birmingham.
4 October – Flights are disrupted at Belfast International Airport in Northern Ireland after a freight plane gets stuck on the runway.
5 October – Diane James quits as leader of UKIP after only 18 days in the post. – Arthur Simpson-Kent is given a whole life sentence for the murders of former EastEnders actress Sian Blake and their two young sons.
6 October – Communities Secretary Sajid Javid approves plans for fracking at Cuadrilla's Preston New Road site in Lancashire, overturning an earlier decision by the local council. – UKIP leadership contender Steven Woolfe is hospitalised after a reported fight at a meeting of the party's MEPs.
7 October – A blaze damages Cosgrove Hall, a historic house in Northamptonshire.
13 October – A gorilla is recaptured two hours after it escapes from its enclosure at London Zoo.
14 October – Welsh footballer Ched Evans is found not guilty of rape at Cardiff Crown Court.
17 October – The Met Police begin large-scale deployment of body worn video for police officers in London.
20 October – MPs back a motion calling for former BHS owner Sir Philip Green to be stripped of his knighthood.
21 October – A minute's silence is observed throughout Wales to mark the 50th anniversary of the Aberfan disaster.
25 October – The government approves a third runway at Heathrow Airport. Zac Goldsmith MP for Richmond Park resigns in protest.
28 October – A blaze damages several historic buildings in Exeter, including the Royal Clarence Hotel, described as the oldest hotel in England.

=== November ===
2 November – The High Court in London rules in favour of ClientEarth in their case against the government regarding dangerous levels of air pollution in the UK.
3 November – The High Court in London rules that British MPs have the right to invoke Article 50 (or choose not to) instead of Theresa May.
5 November – The British tennis player Andy Murray becomes ATP world number one, the first British player of either gender to reach number one in tennis rankings in the modern era.
9 November – Seven people are killed and fifty injured after a Tramlink tram derails at Sandilands near Croydon, south London.
15 November – The British Medical Journal backs the legalisation of drugs for the first time, arguing that the "War on Drugs" has failed. – The second phase of the high-speed rail line HS2 is confirmed by the government, with lines running from Crewe to Manchester and the West Midlands to Leeds.
16 November – Former Crewe defender Andy Woodward alleged that he had been the victim of child sexual abuse, by former football coach Barry Bennell, at the club in the 1980s. By 1 December, 350 individuals have alleged abuse.
17 November – The American office retailer Staples announces that it is closing all its outlets in the United Kingdom. – Tornadoes affect parts of the Midlands and Wales, causing some damage. – Labour life peer Thomas Taylor, Baron Taylor of Blackburn is involved in a serious road accident outside the Palace of Westminster when his mobility scooter collides with a van. He dies of his injuries on 25 November.
18 November – The Treasury announces that Buckingham Palace will be refurbished over a 10-year period, starting in April 2017 and costing £369 million. The monarch will remain in residence during the works.
23 November – Thomas Mair is found guilty of murdering the Labour MP Jo Cox in West Yorkshire five months ago. He is sentenced to life imprisonment at the Old Bailey. – Serial killer Stephen Port is found guilty of murdering four men and on 25 November is sentenced to life imprisonment. – Chancellor Philip Hammond delivers the Autumn Statement to Parliament, announced to be the final such Statement, being replaced by a full Budget in 2017.
28 November – Paul Nuttall is elected as UKIP's new leader.
29 November – The Investigatory Powers Bill receives Royal Assent.

=== December ===
2 December – Lib Dem leader Tim Farron claims his party is "back in the big time" after it fought on the issue of Brexit to oust ex-Conservative MP Zac Goldsmith in the Richmond Park by-election.
5 December – The United Kingdom buys the remains of former cosmonaut Tim Peake's spacecraft, and hopes to install it in the Science Museum in 2017.
7 December – HMS ''Illustrious'', the last {{sclass-|Invincible|aircraft carrier}}, makes its final voyage out of Portsmouth Harbour to a ship recycling company in Turkey.
11 December – About 350 people are forced to leave their homes in Stoke Newington in London after a water main bursts, flooding the town's High Street.
13 December – Train drivers on Southern Rail go on strike again, this time for two days.
15 December – Maple Mill, a historic former cotton mill in Oldham near Manchester, is gutted by fire.
16 December – A riot occurs at HMP Birmingham, described as the worst since the Strangeways prison riot and protest of 1990. Authorities regain control of all four wings after more than 12 hours of disorder involving 600 inmates.
21 December – In the wake of the 2016 Berlin attack, it is announced that three roads near Buckingham Palace in London, Constitution Hill, Spur Road and the west part of the Mall, will be closed to vehicles during the Changing of the Guard ceremony for a three-month trial period. – Labour MP for Copeland Jamie Reed resigns in order to join the nuclear industry.
22 December – The NHS announces that 10 blind patients will receive "bionic eyes" to help treat an inherited form of blindness.
23 December – Authorities regain control of one wing of HMP Swaleside in Kent after a disturbance involving 60 inmates. – Storm Barbara hits parts of western Scotland and north-east England, followed by Storm Conor on 26 December.

==Publications==
Steve Cole's ''Heads You Die'', the second novel in the ''Young Bond'' series.
David Stuart Davies' novel ''The Ripper Legacy''.
Lindsey Davis' crime novel ''The Graveyard of the Hesperides''.
Owen Hatherley's ''The Ministry of Nostalgia''.
Deborah Levy's novel ''Hot Milk''.
Stuart MacBride's novel ''In the Cold Dark Ground''.
China Miéville's fantasy novella ''This Census-Taker''.
Tony Norfield's ''The City: London and the Global Power of Finance''.
Beatrix Potter's children's story ''The Tale of Kitty-in-Boots'', discovered after 100 years.
Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter's novel ''The Long Cosmos''.
Rosa Prince's ''Comrade Corbyn'', the biography of Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn.
Kate Saunders, Brian Sibley, Jeanne Willis, and Paul Bright co-wrote The Best Bear in All the World, the authorised sequel to  Winnie-the-Pooh from Egmont.

==Deaths==
{{Main article|Deaths in 2016}}

===January===
1 January – Mark B, 45, hip-hop record producer.
2 January – Matt Hobden, 22, cricketer (Sussex). – Thomas Johnstone McWiggan, 97, aviation engineer. – Leonard White, 99, television producer and actor.
3 January – Olwyn Hughes, 87, literary agent (Ted Hughes). – Peter Powell, 83, kite maker. – Tommy Sale, 97, rugby league player (Leigh, Widnes).
4 January – Tom Allin, 28, cricket player (Warwickshire). – Robert Balser, 88, animator (''Yellow Submarine'', ''Heavy Metal'', ''The Jackson 5ive''). – Colin Butler, 102, entomologist. – John Roberts, 69, footballer (Arsenal, Birmingham, Wrexham). – Robert Stigwood, 81, band manager (Bee Gees, Cream) and film producer (''Grease'', ''Saturday Night Fever'', ''Evita'').
5 January – Sian Blake, 43, actress (''EastEnders'') (body discovered). – Percy Freeman, 70, footballer (Lincoln City, West Bromwich Albion, Reading). – Albert Gubay, 87, businessman (Kwik Save).
7 January – Paddy Doherty, 89, Irish civil rights activist. – Alan Haven, 80, jazz organist. – Sir Christopher Wallace, 73, army general, Commandant Royal College of Defence Studies (2001–2005)
8 January – Ida Gaskin, 96, teacher and quiz show contestant.
9 January – Ed Stewart, 74, radio presenter. – Gareth Hoskins, 48, architect. – Mike McGinnity, football chairman (Coventry City).
10 January – David Bowie, 69, singer-songwriter ("Space Oddity", ''Ziggy Stardust'', ''Station to Station''), record producer and actor (''Labyrinth''). – Anthony Mellows, 79, barrister and academic, Lord Prior of the Order of St John (2008–2014). – John Stokes, 70, soldier and mountaineer.
11 January – Elizabeth Aston, 67, author. – Sir Kenneth Corfield, 91, camera engineer, inventor of the Corfield Periflex. – John Easter, 70, squash player and cricketer.
12 January – Robert Black, 68, serial killer and kidnapper. – Tommy Mulgrew, 86, footballer (Southampton). – John Stevens, 86, journalist.
13 January – Brian Bedford, 80, actor (''Robin Hood'', ''Nixon'', ''Much Ado About Nothing''). – Sir Albert McQuarrie, 98, Scottish politician, MP for East Aberdeenshire (1979–1983) and Banff and Buchan (1983–1987). – Conrad Phillips, 90, television and film actor (''The Adventures of William Tell''). – Mike Salmon, 82, racing driver. 
14 January – Glyn W. Humphreys, 61, neuropsychologist. – Alan Rickman, 69, actor (''Harry Potter'', ''Die Hard'', ''Love Actually''). – Robert Banks Stewart, 84, television writer (''Doctor Who'', ''Bergerac'', ''Shoestring'').
15 January – Robin Fletcher, 93, academic administrator and Olympic field hockey player. – Charles Harbord-Hamond, 12th Baron Suffield, 62, nobleman.
17 January – Dale Griffin, 67, drummer (Mott the Hoople). – Delphine Parrott, 87, immunologist. – Angus Ross, 49, darts player.
18 January – Terence Cook, 88, rugby union and rugby league footballer. – Andy Dog Johnson, 57, artist, designer of the The The record sleeves. – Mike MacDowel, 83, racing driver.
19 January – Robert M. Carter, 73, marine geologist and climate skeptic. – Laurence Lerner, 90, literary critic. – Sheila Sim, Lady Attenborough, 93, actress (''A Canterbury Tale'', ''Pandora and the Flying Dutchman'', ''West of Zanzibar'').
20 January – Stuart Cowden, 90, footballer (Stoke City). – Brian Key, 68, politician,  MEP for Yorkshire South (1979–1984). – George Weidenfeld, Baron Weidenfeld, 96, publisher, philanthropist, and newspaper columnist.
21 January – Michael Sheringham, literary academic, Marshal Foch Professor of French Literature at Oxford University (2004–2015). – Gerald Williams, 86, tennis commentator.
22 January – Jack Bannister, 85, cricket player (Warwickshire) and commentator. – Tommy Bryceland, 76, footballer (St Mirren, Norwich, Oldham Athletic). – John Dowie, 60, footballer (Fulham, Celtic). – Ian Murray, 83, Roman Catholic prelate, Bishop of Argyll and the Isles (1999–2008). – Denise Newman, 91, Olympic diver (1948). – Cecil Parkinson, Lord Parkinson, 84, Conservative politician and cabinet minister, Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (1983), Energy (1987–1989), and Transport (1989–1990), and Chairman of the Conservative Party (1997–1998). – Anthony Simmons, 93, screenwriter and film director (''The Optimists of Nine Elms'', ''Black Joy''). – Alec Wishart, 76, musician (Hogsnort Rupert).
23 January – Jimmy Bain, 68, bassist (Rainbow, Dio). – Grahame Hodgson, 79, rugby union player (Wales). – Hugh Mortimer, 66, diplomat.
24 January – Christine Jackson, 53, cellist – Eric Webster, 84, footballer (Manchester City) and football manager (Stockport County). – Henry Worsley, 55, adventurer.
26 January – Black, 53, singer-songwriter ("Wonderful Life"). – Ray Pointer, 79, footballer (Burnley, Coventry City, Portsmouth).
27 January – Peter Baker, 84, footballer (Tottenham Hotspur). – Bernard Cookson, 79, cartoonist. – John F. G. Howe, 85, air marshal.
28 January – Tommy O'Hara, 62, footballer (Queen of the South, Washington Diplomats, Motherwell). – Nigel Peel, 48, cricketer (Cheshire). – Nadine Senior, 76, English dance teacher. – Dave Thomson, 77, footballer (Dunfermline Athletic).
29 January – Gordon Goody, 86, criminal, mastermind of the Great Train Robbery. – John Roper, Baron Roper, 80, politician. – Donald I. Williamson, 94, biologist.
30 January – Tony Beard, 79, radio announcer (BBC Radio Devon). – Frank Finlay, 89, actor (''Othello'', ''The Pianist'', ''The Three Musketeers'').
31 January – Gillian Avery, 89, children's novelist and historian. – Sir Terry Wogan, 77, broadcaster (''Wogan'', ''Children in Need'', ''Blankety Blank'', ''Come Dancing'') and BBC presenter of the Eurovision Song Contest (1971–2008).

===February===
1 February – Francis Ormsby-Gore, 6th Baron Harlech, 61, nobleman. – Tom Pugh, 78, cricketer. – Sir Peter Whiteley, 95, General in the Royal Marines, Lieutenant Governor of Jersey (1979–1984).
2 February – Seth Cardew, 81, studio potter.
4 February – William Gaskill, 85, theatre director. – Harry Glasgow, 76, footballer (Clyde). – Harry Harpham, 61, politician, MP for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough (since 2015). – Sir Jeremy Morse, 87, banker and crossword compiler. – David Sloan, 74, footballer (Scunthorpe United, Oxford United, Walsall).
6 February – Alastair Biggar, 69, rugby union player (Scotland, British and Irish Lions, London Scottish).
8 February – John Disley, 87, steeplechase runner, Olympic bronze medallist (1952), and co-founder of the London Marathon. – Margaret Forster, 77, novelist (''Georgy Girl'') and biographer. – Norman Hudis, 93, screenwriter (''Carry On'').
9 February – Wayne England, artist (''Magic: The Gathering''). – Michael Hanlon, 51, science journalist. – Roy Harris, 82, folk singer. – Graham Moore, 74, footballer (Charlton Athletic, Cardiff City).
10 February – Ian Cowap, 65, cricketer (Cheshire). – Phil Gartside, 63, businessman and football chairman (Bolton Wanderers).
11 February – Les Belshaw, 88, rugby league footballer of the 1950s – Sir Timothy Bevan, 88, banker, chairman of Barclays (1981–1987). – Peter Wood, 90, theatre director.
12 February – Barbara Hardy, 92, author. – Keith Jeffery, 64, historian.
13 February – Flakey Dove, 30, racehorse, winner of the 1994 Champion Hurdle. – Sir Christopher Zeeman, 91, mathematician. – Members of the band Viola Beach killed in a car accident: – *Jack Dakin, 19, drummer. – *Kris Leonard, 20, singer and guitarist. – *Tomas Lowe, 27, bassist. – *River Reeves, 19, guitarist. – *Craig Tarry, 32, manager.
14 February – Ali Brownlee, 56, radio sports broadcaster (Middlesbrough F.C. on BBC Tees). – Drewe Henley, 75, actor (''Star Wars''). – David Hey, 77, historian. – Eric Lubbock, 4th Baron Avebury, 87, politician, MP for Orpington (1962–1970).
15 February – Walter McGowan, 73, boxer, world champion (1966).
16 February – Ronnie Blackman, 90, footballer (Reading). – Gwyneth George, 95, concert cellist and music academic. – Jim Pleass, 92, cricketer (Glamorgan).
18 February – Sir Tony Durant, 88, politician, MP (1974–1997). – Brendan Healy, 59, actor and musician. – Bruce Lacey, 89, artist and actor. – Johnny Miller, 65, footballer (Ipswich Town). – Don Rossiter, 80, footballer and politician.
19 February – Freddie Goodwin, 82, football player (Manchester United, Leeds United) and manager (Birmingham City). – Sir Anthony Hidden, 79, judge. – Sir William O'Brien, 99, admiral, Naval Secretary (1964–1966). – Vi Subversa, 80, musician (Poison Girls).
20 February – Jon Rollason, 84, actor (''The Avengers'',''Coronation Street'', ''Doctor Who'').
21 February – Eric Brown, 97, test pilot. – Roger Chorley, 2nd Baron Chorley, 85, nobleman. – Vlasta Dalibor, 94, puppeteer (Pinky and Perky). – David Duffield, 84, sports commentator and cyclist. – Andrew Herxheimer, 90, physician and clinical pharmacologist. – Peter Marlow, 63, news photographer.
22 February – Douglas Slocombe, 103, cinematographer (''Indiana Jones'', ''The Lion in Winter'', ''Jesus Christ Superstar'').
24 February – Jim McFadzean, 77, footballer (Kilmarnock, Heart of Midlothian). – S. F. C. Milsom, 92, barrister and legal historian.
25 February – John Chilton, 83, jazz musician and writer. – Jim Clark, 84, film editor (''The World Is Not Enough'', ''The Killing Fields'', ''Marathon Man''), Oscar winner (1985).
26 February – Antony Gibbs, 90, film editor (''Tom Jones'', ''Fiddler on the Roof'', ''Ronin''). – Michael S. Longuet-Higgins, 90, mathematician and oceanographer.
27 February – Michael Bowes-Lyon, 18th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne, 58, nobleman and soldier. – Dick Bradsell, 56, bartender. – Steven Rumbelow, 66, theatre and film director (''Autumn'').
28 February – Paul Colinvaux, 85, ecologist and author (''Fates of Nations''). – John Cameron, Lord Coulsfield, 81, judge (Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial), Senator of the College of Justice (1987–1992). – John Jones, 91, author and academic.
29 February – Louise Rennison, 64, author (''Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging'').

===March===
1 March – Peter Mathias, 88, economic historian. – Louise Plowright, 59, actress (''Mamma Mia!'', ''EastEnders'', ''Families''). – Tony Warren, 79, television scriptwriter (''Coronation Street'').
2 March – Arthur Keily, 94, marathon runner. – Paul Webley, 62, educator, president of SOAS, University of London (2006–2015).
3 March – Lord James Blears, 92, professional wrestler. – Anthony Carrigan, 35, academic. – Cyril Denis, 71, land developer (London Docklands) and hotelier. – Andrew Derbyshire, 92, architect. – Tony Dyson, 68, film prop designer (R2-D2). – John Thomas, 63, guitarist (Budgie).
4 March – John Brooks, Baron Brooks of Tremorfa, 88, politician and boxing executive, President of the British Boxing Board of Control and Welsh Sports Hall of Fame. – Alistair Stuart, 89, newspaper editor (''Scotland on Sunday'').
5 March – John Douglas, 21st Earl of Morton, 88, nobleman. – John Evans, Baron Evans of Parkside, 85, politician, MP for Newton (1974–1983) and St Helens North (1983–1997). – Alan Henry, 68, motorsport journalist. – Henry Hobhouse, 91, author (''Seeds of Change: Five Plants That Transformed Mankind'').
6 March – Wally Bragg, 86, footballer (Brentford). – Ernest George Mardon, 87, historian.
7 March – Leonard Berney, 95, military officer, a liberator of Bergen-Belsen. – Scott Goodall, 80, comic book writer. – Bryan Knights, 72, radio commentator (BBC Radio Suffolk) and football broadcaster (Ipswich Town). – Michael White, 80, film and theatre producer (''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'', ''The Rocky Horror Picture Show''), Tony Award-winner (1971, 1972 and 1976), and subject of ''The Last Impresario''.
8 March – Jack Jones, 90, Olympic water polo player (1952, 1956). – Sir George Martin, 90, record producer (The Beatles), composer, arranger and engineer, six times Grammy Award winner.
9 March – Bryan Coombs, 81, academic and shorthand expert (Pitman shorthand). – Jon English, 66, musician and actor.
10 March – Sir Ken Adam, 95, production designer (''Dr. Strangelove'', ''James Bond'', ''The Madness of King George''), Oscar winner (1975, 1994). – Anita Brookner, 87, novelist (''Hotel du Lac'') and art historian, Man Booker Prize winner (1984). – Keith Emerson, 71, progressive rock and rock keyboardist (The Nice, Emerson, Lake & Palmer).
11 March – Doreen Massey, 72, geographer. – Brenda Naylor, 89, sculptor. – Billy Ritchie, 79, footballer (Rangers, Partick Thistle).
13 March – Adrienne Corri, 85, actress (''Doctor Zhivago'', ''A Clockwork Orange'', ''Doctor Who''). – Lord Michael Jones, 68, judge.
14 March – Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, 81, composer and conductor, Master of the Queen's Music (2004–2014). – Lilly Dubowitz, 85, paediatrician.
15 March – Sylvia Anderson, 88, television producer and voice actress (''Thunderbirds''). – Asa Briggs, Baron Briggs, 94, historian, codebreaker and life peer. – Sebastian Rahtz, 61, digital humanities researcher.
16 March – Cliff Michelmore, 96, television presenter and producer (''Tonight'', ''24 Hours'', ''Holiday''). – Alan Spavin, 74, footballer (Preston North End, Dundalk).
17 March – Paul Daniels, 77, magician and television presenter (''The Paul Daniels Magic Show'', ''Odd One Out'', ''Every Second Counts'', ''Wipeout'', ''Wizbit''). – DJ Derek, 73, disc jockey. (death reported on this date). – Sandy McDonald, 78, Church of Scotland minister, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (1997–1998). – Trevor J. Phillips, 89, educational philosopher (see Transactionalism).
18 March – Barry Hines, 76, author (''A Kestrel for a Knave''). – John Urry, 79, sociologist.
19 March – David Green, 76, cricketer (Lancashire, Gloucestershire). – Jack Mansell, 88, footballer and football coach.
20 March – Jon Beazley, television executive (BBC) and producer (''Strictly Come Dancing''). – Jack Boxley, 84, footballer (Bristol City, Coventry City). – Mark Sutton, 46, rugby union player (Dunvant).
21 March – Robert McNeill Alexander, 81, zoologist.
22 March – Petra Davies, 85, actress.
23 March – David Blackburn, 76, artist. – Sir Richard George, 71, food manufacturer (Weetabix Limited). – Desmond McKeown, 79, rugby league player (Oldham). (death reported on this date). – Sir Peter Moores, 83, businessman (Littlewoods), and chairman of Everton (1960–1965).
24 March – Brendan Sloan, 67, Gaelic football player (Down).
25 March – Ken Barr, 83, artist. – Terry Brain, 60, animator (''The Trap Door''). – David Snellgrove, 95, Tibetologist.
26 March – Michael MccGwire, 92, foreign policy analyst. – Bernard Neal, 93, structural engineer and croquet player.
28 March – Peggy Fortnum, 96, illustrator (Paddington Bear). – Derek Robertson, 64, football executive (Dundee United). (death reported on this date)
30 March – Denys Carnill, 90, field hockey player, Olympic bronze medalist (1952). – John King, 77, football player and manager (Tranmere). – Andy Newman, 73, pianist (Thunderclap Newman).
31 March – Ian Britton, 61, footballer (Chelsea, Blackpool, Burnley) and manager (Nelson). – Ronnie Corbett, 85, actor and comedian (''The Two Ronnies'', ''The Frost Report'', ''Sorry!''). – Sir Robert Finch, 71, Lord Mayor of London (2003). – Dame Zaha Hadid, 65, Iraqi-born architect. – Denise Robertson, 83, writer and television broadcaster (''This Morning''). – Jimmy Toner, 92, footballer (Dundee, Leeds United). – Kris Travis, 33, professional wrestler. – Douglas Wilmer, 96, actor (''Sherlock Holmes'', ''Octopussy'', ''Cleopatra'').

===April===
1 April – Alan Carter, 86, civil servant, Director of Immigration of Hong Kong (1983–1989). – Tony Whittaker, 81, solicitor and politician.
2 April – Gareth Jones, 85, legal academic.
3 April – John Vane, 11th Baron Barnard, 92, nobleman. – Martin Lampkin, 65, motorcycle trials rider. – John Waite, 74, footballer (Grimsby).
4 April – Royston Nash, 82, conductor (D'Oyly Carte Opera Company). – Ken Waterhouse, 85, footballer (Preston North End, Rotherham United).
5 April – Henry Hobhouse, 91, journalist and historian (''Seeds of Change: Five Plants That Transformed Mankind''). – Mick Sullivan, 82, rugby league footballer (Wigan), world champion (1954, 1960).
6 April – Sid Nathan, 93, boxer and referee (death reported on this date).
7 April – Adrian Greenwood, 42, art dealer and author. – Rachel Johnson, 93, last native of the Scottish island of St Kilda (death reported on this date). – Garry Jones, 65, footballer (Bolton Wanderers). – Charles Thomas, 87, archaeologist. – Ruth Westbrook, 85, cricket player and coach (England).
8 April – Mildred Gordon, 92, politician, MP for Bow and Poplar (1987–1997). – Fred Middleton, 85, footballer (Lincoln City). – David Swift, 85, actor (''Drop the Dead Donkey'').
9 April – Patrick (Paddy) J. O'Donnell, 68, academic. – Martin Roberts, 48, rugby union player (Gloucester Rugby).
10 April – Howard Marks, 70, cannabis smuggler, writer and campaigner. – Adrian St John, 22, cricketer.
11 April – Emile Ford, 78, singer (''Emile Ford and the Checkmates''). – Nicholas Gargano, 81, boxer, Olympic bronze medallist (1956). – Dame Marion Kettlewell, 102, naval officer, Director of the Wrens (1966–1970).
12 April – Alan Loveday, 88, violinist (Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, Academy of St Martin in the Fields). – Sir Arnold Wesker, 83, playwright.
13 April – Srinivas Aravamudan, 54, academic. – Steve Quinn, 64, rugby league player (York Wasps, Featherstone Rovers). – Jock Scot, 64, poet and recording artist. – Gareth Thomas, 71, actor (''Blake's 7'', ''Children of the Stones'', ''Star Maidens''). – Gwyn Thomas, 79, poet and academic, National Poet of Wales (2006–2008).
14 April – David Collischon, 78, executive (Filofax). – Martin Fitzmaurice, 75, darts personality. – Ted Gundry, 81, radio broadcaster (BBC). – Sir David MacKay, 48, author, scientist and professor (University of Cambridge). – Phil Sayer, 62, voice artist ("Mind the gap").
15 April – Morag Siller, 46, actress (''Emmerdale'', ''Memphis Belle'', ''Casualty''). – Guy Woolfenden, 78, composer and conductor.
16 April – Richard Smith, 84, painter. – Kit West, 79, special effects artist (''Raiders of the Lost Ark'', ''Dragonheart'', ''Return of the Jedi'', ''Enemy at the Gates''), Oscar winner (1982).
18 April – Adrian Berry, 4th Viscount Camrose, 78, peer and journalist. – Barry Davies, 71, soldier and extractor of Lufthansa Flight 181 hostages. – Karina Huff, 55, actress (''The House of Clocks'', ''Time for Loving'', ''Voices from Beyond'') and television personality. – Sir John Leslie, 4th Baronet, 99, aristocrat and media personality.
19 April – Harry Elderfield, 72, geochemist and professor (University of Cambridge). – Billy Redmayne, 25, motorcycle racer.
20 April – Cynthia Cooke, 96, nurse, Matron-in-Chief of the Queen Alexandra's Royal Naval Nursing Service (1973–1976). – Guy Hamilton, 93, film director (''James Bond'', ''Battle of Britain'', ''Evil Under the Sun''). – Avril Henry, 81, academic. – Victoria Wood, 62, comedian and actress (''New Faces'', ''Victoria Wood As Seen on TV'', ''Dinnerladies''). – Jack Tafari, 69, activist.
21 April – John Walton, Baron Walton of Detchant, 93, peer.
22 April – David Beresford, 68, journalist. – John Lumsden, 55, footballer (Stoke City). – Sir Denys Wilkinson, 93, nuclear physicist.
23 April – Patrick George, 92, painter. – Sir Richard Parsons, 88, diplomat, Ambassador to Hungary, Spain and Sweden. – Maurice Peston, Baron Peston, 85, peer, politician and economist.
26 April – Mark Farmer, 53, actor (''Grange Hill'', ''Minder'', ''Johnny Jarvis'').
27 April – Harold Cohen, 87, computer artist (AARON). – Angela Flanders, 88, perfumer. – Herta Groves, 96, milliner.
28 April – Sir Edward Ashmore, 96, Royal Naval officer, First Sea Lord (1974–1977). – Jenny Diski, 68, writer (''Nothing Natural'', ''Rainforest'', ''London Review of Books''). – Barry Howard, 78, actor (''Hi-de-Hi!'').
29 April – Tim Bacon, 52, restauranteur and actor (''Sons and Daughters''). – Alyson Bailes, 67, diplomat, ambassador to Finland (2000–2002). – Dave Robinson, 67, footballer (Birmingham City, Walsall).
30 April – Sir Harry Kroto, 76, chemist, winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (1996). – Phil Ryan, 69, keyboardist (Man).

===May===
1 May – Richard Gilpin, 76, Anglican vicar, Archdeacon of Totnes (1996–2005).
2 May – Basil Blackshaw, 84, artist. – Jonathan Cainer, 58, astrologer (''Daily Mail''). – Richard Davis, 66, radio astronomer. – Paul McDowell, 84, actor and singer (The Temperance Seven). – Roger Millward, 68, rugby league player (Hull Kingston Rovers, Castleford Tigers, Great Britain).
3 May – Kristian Ealey, 38, actor (''Brookside'', ''Hollyoaks'') and musician.
4 May – Sir Jack Baer, 91, art dealer. – Michael Caborn-Waterfield, 86, businessman (Ann Summers).
5 May – Matt Irwin, 36, photographer.
6 May – Lakshmi Holmström, 81, author and translator. – Chris Mitchell, 27, footballer (Queen of the South, Clyde).
7 May – John Krish, 92, film director. – George Ross, 73, footballer (Preston North End).
8 May – Sir Iain Glidewell, 91, jurist, Lord Justice of Appeal (1985–1995).
9 May – Comply or Die, 17, thoroughbred racehorse, winner of the 2008 Grand National. – Gareth Gwenlan, 79, television producer (''One Foot in the Grave'', ''Only Fools and Horses'', ''The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin'', ''To the Manor Born''). – Bill MacIlwraith, 88, playwright and screenwriter (''Two's Company''). – Dennis Nineham, 94, theologian. – John Warr, 88, cricketer (Middlesex).
10 May – Sally Brampton, 60, writer and magazine editor (''Elle''). – Sarah Corp, 41, television news producer. – Nicholas Fisk, 92, children's author.
11 May – Seb Adeniran-Olule, 20, rugby union player (Harlequins). – Bobby Carroll, 77, footballer (Celtic). – David King, 73, graphic designer, art collector and writer (''The Commissar Vanishes''). – Joe Temperley, 86, jazz saxophonist (Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra).
12 May – Sidney Brazier, 96, army bomb disposal officer.
14 May – Tony Barrow, 80, press officer (The Beatles). – John Coyle, 83, footballer (Dundee United, Clyde). – Malachi Mitchell-Thomas, 20, motorcycle racer. – Kenneth Painter, 71, archaeologist and curator.
15 May – Bobby McIlvenny, 89, footballer (Oldham Athletic).
16 May – Sir Gavyn Farr Arthur, 64, judge, Lord Mayor of London (2002–2003). – Anthony Bird, 85, Anglican priest and academic. – Ken Cameron, 74, trade unionist. – John O. Hughes, 97, football administrator. – David Rendel, 67, politician, MP for Newbury (1993–2005).
18 May – Ethel Bush, 100, police officer. – Adrian Flowers, 89, photographer.
19 May – George Forty, 88, army officer and author. – Hugh Honour, 88, art historian. – Donald Snelgrove, 91, Anglican clergyman, Bishop of Hull (1981–1994).
20 May – Malvina Cheek, 100, war artist. – Audrey Purton, 90, Women's Royal Army Corps officer.
21 May – Jane Fawcett, 95, codebreaker at Bletchley Park during the Second World War, and key figure in the sinking of the ''Bismarck''. – Sir Denys Henderson, 83, businessman, chairman of ICI (1987–1995). – Alan Lewis, 61, footballer (Reading, Derby County, Peterborough United). – Chris Meek, 86, racing driver and businessman, owner of Mallory Park.
24 May – Burt Kwouk, 85, actor (''The Pink Panther'', ''Last of the Summer Wine'', ''Goldfinger'').
25 May – Ian Gibson, 73, footballer (Cardiff City, Coventry City, Middlesbrough). – Peggy Spencer, 96, dancer. – John Webster, 60, theologian.
27 May – Henrietta Phipps, 84, landscape gardener.
28 May – Patrick Neill, Baron Neill of Bladen, 89, barrister and life peer. – Edward O'Hara, 78, politician, MP for Knowsley South (1990–2010).
29 May – Alan Devereux, 75, actor (''The Archers''). – Edward Morris, 75, art historian. – Berrick Saul, 91, economist and academic administrator (death reported on this date).
31 May – James Campbell, 81, historian. – Carla Lane, 87, television writer (''The Liver Birds'', ''Butterflies'', ''Bread''). – Peter Owen, 89, publisher. – Pam Royds, 91, publisher.

===June===
1 June – John Taylor, 87, Anglican clergyman and theologian, Bishop of St Albans (1980–1995). – Alan Wise, 63, record producer.
2 June – Sir Tom Kibble, 83, physicist.
3 June – Dave Swarbrick, 75, folk musician and singer-songwriter (Fairport Convention).
4 June – Annie Castledine, 77, theatre director. – Nicky Jennings, 70, footballer (Portsmouth, Exeter City). – Sir Brian McGrath, 90, courtier, private secretary to the Duke of Edinburgh. – Alan Rathbone, 57, rugby league player (Bradford, Warrington).
6 June – Harry Gregory, 72, footballer. – John Charles Harding, 2nd Baron Harding of Petherton, 88, army officer and peer. – Sir Peter Shaffer, 90, playwright (''Black Comedy'', ''Equus'', ''Amadeus'') and screenwriter, Tony Award winner (1975, 1981).
7 June – Johnny Brooks, 84, footballer (Tottenham Hotspur, Chelsea, Brentford). – Peter Jost, 95, mechanical engineer.
8 June – Michael Manser, 87, architect.
9 June – Hamza Ali, 20, cricketer (Hampshire). – Bernard Shrimsley, 85, newspaper editor (''The Sun'', ''News of the World'').
10 June – Alex Govan, 86, footballer (Plymouth Argyle, Birmingham City).
11 June – Donald Carr, 89, cricketer (Derbyshire, Oxford University, England). – Alberto Remedios, 81, operatic tenor.
12 June – Rodney Leach, Baron Leach of Fairford, 82, banker and politician. – Tom Leppard, 80, tattooed man (a.k.a. The Leopard Man).
14 June – Ronan Costello, 17, rugby league player (Huddersfield Giants). – Henry McCullough, 72, guitarist (Spooky Tooth, Paul McCartney & Wings, The Grease Band).
15 June – Bob Holman, 79, academic (University of Bath) and community worker. – Harry Moule, 94, cricketer (Worcestershire).
16 June – Jo Cox, 41, politician, MP for Batley and Spen (since 2015), assassinated.
17 June – Audrey Disbury, 82, cricketer. – Sam Beaver King, 90, political activist, Mayor of Southwark (1983), co-founder of the Notting Hill Carnival. – Tenor Fly, rapper and ragga vocalist.
19 June – Bob Williamson, 67, songwriter and comedian.
21 June – Karl Dallas, 85, journalist, author and campaigner. – Bryan Edwards, 85, footballer (Bolton Wanderers).
22 June – David J. Hickson, 85, organizational theorist. – Harry Rabinowitz, 100, composer (''Reilly, Ace of Spies'') and conductor (''Chariots of Fire'', ''Cats'').
23 June – Peter Morley, 91, filmmaker.
24 June – Steven Hancock, 58, Olympic kayaker (1980) and business executive.
25 June – Percy Beake, 99, WWII fighter pilot. – Patrick Mayhew, Baron Mayhew of Twysden, 86, barrister and politician, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (1992–1997).
28 June – Freddie Gilroy, 80, bantamweight boxer, Olympic bronze medallist (1956).
30 June – Geoffrey Hill, 84, poet. – Gordon Murray, 95, television producer and puppeteer (''Trumpton'', ''Camberwick Green'', ''Chigley'').

===July===
1 July – Tom Boulton, 90, anaesthetist. – Robin Hardy, 86, film director (''The Wicker Man'').
2 July – Caroline Aherne, 52, comedian, writer and actress (''The Mrs Merton Show'', ''The Fast Show'', ''The Royle Family''). – Euan Lloyd, 92, film producer (''The Wild Geese''). – Harold "H" Nelson, 88, cycling coach. – Robert Nye, 77, poet.
3 July – Michael Beaumont, 22nd Seigneur of Sark, 88, aristocrat. – Jimmy Frizzell, 79, footballer (Greenock Morton, Oldham Athletic) and football manager. – John Middleton, 59, footballer (Derby County, Nottingham Forest).
4 July – Geoffrey Shovelton, 80, opera singer and illustrator.
5 July – Beatrice de Cardi, 102, archaeologist. – John Baillie-Hamilton, 13th Earl of Haddington, 74, peer. – David Jones, 66, politician, member of the States of Guernsey. – Brian White, 59, politician, MP for North East Milton Keynes (1997–2005). – Victor P. Whittaker, 97, biochemist.
6 July – Matthew Evans, Baron Evans of Temple Guiting, 74, politician and publisher (Faber).
7 July – Sally Beauman, 71, author (''Rebecca's Tale'', ''The Landscape of Love''). – James Gilbert, 93, television producer (''The Two Ronnies'', ''Last of the Summer Wine''). – John O'Rourke, 71, footballer (Middlesbrough, Ipswich Town).
8 July – Frank Dickens, 84, cartoonist (''Bristow''). – William Lucas, 91, actor (''The Adventures of Black Beauty''). – Cicely Mayhew, 92, diplomat. – Jackie McInally, 76, footballer (Kilmarnock, Motherwell, Hamilton Academical). – Paddy Phelan, 78, cricketer (Essex) (death reported on this date).
9 July – Gladys Hooper, 113, supercentenarian, oldest living person in the United Kingdom. – Ray Spencer, 82, footballer (Darlington, Torquay United).
10 July – David Stride, 58, footballer (Chelsea).
11 July – Elaine Fantham, 83, classicist.
13 July – George Allen, 84, footballer (Birmingham City).
14 July – Michael J. Elliott, 65, newspaper and magazine editor (''Time'', ''Newsweek'', ''The Economist'').
15 July – Helen Bailey, 51, author (body discovered on this date). – Peregrine Eliot, 10th Earl of St Germans, 75, peer and festival founder.
18 July – Richard Budge, 69, businessman. – John Hope, 67, footballer (Sheffield United). – Les Stocker, 73, wildlife expert, founder of Tiggywinkles.
19 July – Tom McCready, 72, footballer (Wimbledon F.C.). – John Pidgeon, 69, writer and broadcaster. – Anthony D. Smith, 76, historical sociologist.
20 July – Jim Pressdee, 83, cricketer (Glamorgan).
21 July – John Garton, 74, Anglican prelate, Bishop of Plymouth (1996–2005). – Des Rea, 72, boxer. – J. O. Roberts, 84, actor.
23 July – Kate Granger, 34, physician and fundraiser. – Sir David Goodall, 84, diplomat, British High Commissioner to India (1987–1991).
24 July – Keith Gemmell, 68, musician (Audience, Stackridge, Pasadena Roof Orchestra).
25 July – Tom Clegg, 81, television and film director. – Eric Kuhne, 64, architect (Bluewater Shopping Centre, Titanic Belfast).
26 July – Roye Albrighton, 67, rock guitarist and singer (Nektar). – Anne Balfour-Fraser, 92, film producer. – Maggie Macdonald, 63, singer in Scottish Gaelic. – Sylvia Peters, 90, continuity announcer and actress (BBC TV). – Dave Syrett, 60, footballer (Swindon Town, Mansfield Town, Peterborough United).
28 July – Norman Guthkelch, 100, paediatric neurosurgeon. – Patrick Jourdain, 73, bridge player and journalist.
29 July – Ken Barrie, 83, voice actor (''Postman Pat'') and singer.
31 July – Gwynn ap Gwilym, 61, author. – Bill Holdsworth, 87, cricketer (Yorkshire).

===August===
1 August – Dai Dower, 83, flyweight boxer. – Sir Derek Oulton, 89, civil servant, Permanent Secretary of the Lord Chancellor's Department and Clerk of the Crown in Chancery (1982–1989).
2 August – Jonathan Borwein, 65, mathematician. – Tony Chater, 86, communist activist and newspaper editor (''Morning Star''). – John Fox, 87, cricketer (Durham, Warwickshire, Devon). – Neil Wilkinson, 61, footballer (Blackburn Rovers, Port Vale, Crewe Alexandra).
3 August – Russell Coughlin, 56, footballer (Carlisle United, Plymouth Argyle, Swansea City).
5 August – David Attwooll, 67, poet and publisher. – Sir Robin Chichester-Clark, 88, politician, MP for Londonderry (1955–1974). – Joe Davis, 75, footballer (Hibernian, Carlisle United). – Harold Hillman, 85, scientist. – Sir Leonard Peach, 83–84, civil servant, Chief Executive of the NHS (1986–1989). – John Alan Robinson, 86, philosopher, mathematician and computer scientist.
6 August – Alan Dossor, 74, theatre director. – Kenneth Durham, 62, educationalist, headmaster of University College School. – Mel Slack, 72, footballer (Southend United, Cambridge United). – Samuel Robin Spark, 78, artist.
7 August – Jack Sears, 86, race and rally driver. – Peter Stein, 90, legal scholar. – Roy Summersby, 81, footballer (Crystal Palace, Millwall, Portsmouth).
8 August – Edward Daly, 82, Roman Catholic prelate, Bishop of Derry (1974–1993).
9 August – Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster, 64, peer, Army major-general and billionaire property developer. – Bob Kiley, 80, public transport planner, Commissioner of Transport for London (2001–2006).
11 August – Roly Bain, 62, priest and clown. – Charles Bawden, 92, Mongolist. – David Enthoven, 72, music manager (Robbie Williams, T. Rex, Roxy Music) and record label founder (E.G. Records).
12 August – Keith Blunt, 77, football coach (Sutton United, Malmö, Viking). – Sir Swinton Thomas, 85, judge.
13 August – Kenny Baker, 81, actor (''Star Wars'', ''Time Bandits'', ''Flash Gordon''). – Patricia English, 84, actress.
14 August – Neil Black, 84, oboist. – Robert Goff, Baron Goff of Chieveley, 89, judge and law lord.
15 August – Dalian Atkinson, 48, footballer (Ipswich Town, Aston Villa). – Ieuan Roberts, 66, political activist.
17 August – John Ellenby, 75, computer scientist. – Barry Myers, 79, advertising filmmaker.
18 August – Michael Napier Brown, 79, actor, theatre director and playwright.
19 August – Trevor Baker, 94, meteorologist. – Peter Blundell Jones, 66–67, architect and architectural historian. – Colin O'Brien, 76, photographer. – Danus Skene, 72, politician.
20 August – Brian Rix, 92, actor (''And the Same to You'') and activist (Mencap). – Tom Searle, 28, metalcore guitarist (Architects).
21 August – Sir Antony Jay, 86, broadcaster, director and writer (''Yes Minister''). – Derek Smith, 85, jazz pianist. – Rab Stewart, 54, footballer (Dunfermline Athletic, Motherwell, Falkirk).
22 August – Michael Leader, 78, actor (''EastEnders'', ''Star Wars''). – Gilli Smyth, 83, singer (Gong).
23 August – Dennis Hackett, 87, journalist and editor (''Queen'', ''Nova'', ''Today'').
25 August – Dame Margaret Anstee, 90, diplomat, Director-General of the UN Office in Vienna (1987–1992). – G. Spencer-Brown, 93, polymath.
26 August – Graham Cairns-Smith, 74–75, scientist. – J. Alec Motyer, 91, biblical scholar. – Michael Phillips, ice dancer. – Martyn Quayle, 57, politician, member of the House of Keys (2001–2011).
27 August – Alan Cuthbert, 84, pharmacologist. – Alan Smith, 77, footballer (Torquay United).
28 August – Ken Purchase, 77, politician, MP for Wolverhampton North East (1992–2010).
29 August – Harry Jepson, 96, rugby league administrator. – Reg Matthewson, 77, footballer (Sheffield United, Fulham).
30 August – Dave Durie, 85, footballer (Blackpool, Chester City).
31 August – David H. Trump, 85, archaeologist. – Brian Wildsmith, 86, artist and illustrator of children's books. – Miles Vaughan Williams, 98, pharmacologist.

===September===
1 September – Frans ten Bos, 79, rugby union player (Scotland).
2 September – David Morgan, 56, journalist. – Eileen Younghusband, 95, WW2 air officer and author.
4 September – David Jenkins, 91, Anglican cleric and theologian, Bishop of Durham (1984–1994). – Melvyn Pignon, 86, field hockey player.
5 September – George McLeod, 83, footballer. – Max Murray, 80, footballer (Rangers, West Bromwich Albion). – Donald Ranvaud, 62, journalist and film producer (''The Constant Gardener'', ''Central Station'', ''City of God'').
7 September – Emlyn Davies, 94, rugby union player (Swansea, Aberavon, Wales). – Ken Higgs, 79, cricketer (Lancashire, Leicestershire). – Dave Pacey, 79, footballer (Luton Town).
8 September – Sir Trevor Jones, 89, politician. – Bert Llewellyn, 77, footballer (Crewe, Port Vale, Wigan Athletic). – John Watts, 69, politician, MP for Slough (1983–1997).
9 September – Sylvia Gore, 71, football player (England) and manager (Wales). – Lord Littlebrook, 87, midget wrestler.
11 September – Beryl Crockford, 66, rower, world champion (1985). – Gavin Frost, 86, Wiccan author.
12 September – Gerry Haywood, 69–70, darts player. – Hidayat Inayat Khan, 99, composer and conductor.
13 September – Denis Atkins, 77, footballer (Bradford City). – Matt Gray, 80, footballer (Third Lanark, Manchester City). – Jonathan Riley-Smith, 78, historian.
14 September – Lady Caroline Faber, 93, aristocrat. – Richard Whittington-Egan, 91, writer and criminologist. – Gareth F. Williams, 61, author.
18 September – Stephanie Booth, 70, hotelier. – Sir Nicholas Fenn, 80, diplomat, High Commissioner to India (1991–1996).
20 September – Bernard Bergonzi, 87, literary scholar. – Alan Cousin, 78, footballer (Dundee, Hibernian, Falkirk). – Jim Semple, 81, businessman.
21 September – Jack Rawlings, 93, footballer (Hayes, Hendon).
23 September – David Coleman, 73, footballer (Colchester United).
24 September – Mel Charles, 81, footballer (Swansea Town, Arsenal, Cardiff City). – James Crowden, 88, Olympic rower (1952), Lord Lieutenant of Cambridgeshire (1992–2002).
25 September – Hughie Jones, 89, Anglican rector, Archdeacon of Loughborough (1986–1992). – Sir Patrick Sissons, 71, professor of medicine.
26 September – Don Brothwell, 82–83, archaeologist. – Jackie Sewell, 89, footballer (Notts County, Sheffield Wednesday, Aston Villa).
27 September – Ronald King Murray, Lord Murray, 94, politician and jurist, Lord Advocate (1974–1979). – Paddy O'Flaherty, 73, broadcaster. – Mike Taylor, vocalist (Quartz).
28 September – Graham Hawkins, 70, footballer and football manager.
29 September – Terence Brady, 77, writer (''Upstairs, Downstairs''), and actor. – Ann Emery, 86, actress (''Rentaghost'', ''Billy Elliot'', ''Julia Jekyll and Harriet Hyde''). – Anthony Ryle, 89, doctor.
30 September – Gordon Borrie, Baron Borrie, 85, lawyer and life peer. – Michael Casswell, 53, guitarist. – Victor Munden, 88, cricketer (Leicestershire). (death announced on this date). – Mike Towell, 25, professional boxer.

===October===
1 October – David Herd, 82, footballer (Arsenal, Manchester United, Scotland).
2 October – Steve Byrd, 61, guitarist (Gillan, Kim Wilde). – Mary Hesse, 91, academician and educator. – Sir Neville Marriner, 92, conductor and founder of the Academy of St Martin in the Fields. – Thomas Round, 100, opera singer.
3 October – Anthony Goodman, 80, historian. – Andrew Vicari, 84, painter.
4 October – Caroline Crawley, singer and musician (Shelleyan Orphan, This Mortal Coil). – Stephen de Mowbray, 91, counter-intelligence officer. – Merfyn Jones, 85, footballer (Scunthorpe United, Crewe Alexandra, Chester City).
5 October – Rod Temperton, 66, keyboardist (Heatwave) and songwriter ("Rock with You", "Give Me the Night", "Thriller"). (death reported on this date).
6 October – Peter Denton, 70, footballer (Coventry City, Luton Town). – Alan Hodgson, 64, cricketer (Northamptonshire). – Tony Mottram, 96, tennis player. – Mike Tomkies, 88, nature writer.
7 October – Anne Pashley, 80, athlete and opera singer, Olympic silver medalist (1956). – Wolfgang Suschitzky, 104, photographer and cinematographer (''Get Carter''). – Alistair Urquhart, 97, author and soldier in the Gordon Highlanders during World War II.
8 October – Dickie Jeeps, 84, rugby union player (Northampton Saints) and administrator (Sports Council). – Michael Horace Miller, 88, RAF air commodore.
9 October – Angus Grant, 49, fiddler (Shooglenifty, Swamptrash). – Sir Anthony Grant, 91, politician, MP for Harrow Central (1964–1983), and Cambridgeshire South West (1983–1997). – David Konstant, 86, Roman Catholic prelate, Bishop of Leeds (1985–2004).
10 October – Gerry Gow, 64, footballer (Bristol City, Manchester City, Rotherham United). – Graham C. Greene, 80, publisher (Jonathan Cape). – Drew Nelson, 60, solicitor, politician, and Grand Secretary of the Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland. – Eddie O'Hara, 80, footballer (Falkirk, Everton, Barnsley).
11 October – Peter Reynolds, 58, composer. – Ewen Whitaker, 94, astronomer.
12 October – Mark Fisher, 57, pop musician (Matt Bianco). – Leo Harrison, 94, cricketer (Hampshire).
13 October – William Gilbert Chaloner, 87, palaeobotanist.
14 October – Jean Alexander, 90, actress (''Coronation Street'', ''Last of the Summer Wine''). – John Mone, 87, Roman Catholic prelate, Bishop of Paisley (1988–2004).
15 October – Colin George, 87, actor and director. – John Spanswick, 83, cricketer (Kent).
16 October – Valerie Hunter Gordon, 94, inventor of the disposable nappy. – Molly Rose, 95, World War II aviator.
17 October – George Peebles, 80, footballer (Dunfermline Athletic, Stirling Albion).
18 October – Dave Colclough, 52, professional poker player. – Alan Collins, 88, sculptor. – Mike Daniels, 88, jazz trumpeter and bandleader. – Marianne de Trey, 102, potter. – Huw Jones, 82, Anglican clergyman, Bishop of St. David's (1996–2001). – William McKelvey, 82, politician, MP for Kilmarnock and Loudoun (1983–1997). – Sir Sigmund Sternberg, 95, philanthropist, businessman and Labour Party donor.
19 October – Mark Birch, 67, jockey. – Rough Quest, 30, racehorse, winner of the 1996 Grand National. – Norman Sherry, 91, author. – Gary Sprake, 71, footballer (Leeds United, Wales). – Sammy Smyth, 91, footballer (Wolverhampton Wanderers).
20 October – Benedict Read, 71, art historian.
21 October – Dave Cash, 74, radio presenter. – Roy Jennings, 84, footballer (Brighton and Hove Albion). – Richard Nicoll, 39, fashion designer. – Raine Spencer, Countess Spencer, 87, socialite and politician.
22 October – Martin Aitchison, 96, illustrator (''Eagle''). – Steve Dillon, 54, comic book artist (''Preacher'', ''The Punisher'', ''Hellblazer''). – Gordon Hamilton, 50, climate scientist.
23 October – Pete Burns, 57, singer-songwriter (Dead or Alive). – Jimmy Perry, 93, actor and scriptwriter (''Dad's Army'', ''It Ain't Half Hot Mum'', ''Hi-De-Hi'', ''You Rang M'Lord?'').
24 October – Benjamin Creme, 93, artist, author and esotericist. – Roland Dobbs, 91, physicist.
25 October – Howard Davies, 71, theatre and television director.
27 October – Brian Hill, 75, footballer (Coventry City). – David Nash, 77, rugby union player. – Bobby Wellins, 80, jazz saxophonist.
29 October – Raymond Gilmour, 56 or 57, undercover agent, infiltrated INLA and PIRA. (death reported on this date). – Dave Lanning, 78, sports commentator.
30 October – Jack Braughton, 95, Olympic long distance runner (1948).
31 October – Victor Cannings, 97, cricketer (Hampshire). – Jimmy Gray, 90, cricketer (Hampshire). – Ray Mabbutt, 80, footballer. – Lionel Morrison, 81, journalist and trade unionist.

===November===
1 November – Bap Kennedy, 54, singer-songwriter. – Martin Leach, 59, automotive executive (NextEV Formula E Team).
5 November – John Carson, 89, actor (''Doomsday'', ''Captain Kronos – Vampire Hunter'', ''Doctor Who''). – Giles Waterfield, 67, art historian and curator (Dulwich Picture Gallery).
6 November – Roddy Evans, 81, rugby union player. – Mick Granger, 85, footballer (York City). – Thomas Martyn, 69, rugby league player (Leigh, Warrington, England).
7 November – Thomas Gardner, 93, footballer (Everton). – Sir Jimmy Young, 95, singer ("Unchained Melody", "More", "The Man from Laramie") and radio broadcaster (Radio 2).
8 November – Ian Cowan, 71, footballer (Partick Thistle, Falkirk, Dunfermline Athletic).
9 November – Jack Bodell, 76, heavyweight boxer, British champion (1969–1970, 1971–1972). – Branse Burbridge, 95, World War Two fighter pilot. – Martin Stone, 69, guitarist (The Action) and bookseller.
11 November – Sir Ralph Kohn, 88, medical scientist. – Sir Aubrey Trotman-Dickenson, 90, chemist.
12 November – Louis Devereux, 85, cricketer (Worcestershire, Glamorgan).
13 November – Don Rutherford, 79, rugby union player. – Sir Mota Singh, 86, judge. – Denys Smith, 92, racehorse trainer.
15 November – Bobby Campbell, 60, footballer (Bradford City). – Ken Grieve, 74, television director (''The Bill'', ''Peak Practice'', ''Doctor Who'').
16 November – Len Allchurch, 83, footballer (Swansea City, Sheffield United, Wales).
17 November – Steve Truglia, 54, stuntman (''The Wolfman'', ''Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation'', ''Hollyoaks'').
18 November – Jerzy Cynk, 91, aviation historian. – Paul Newbold, 71, econometrist.
19 November – David Turner-Samuels, 98, barrister.
20 November – Sally Grace, 78, actress (''The Animals of Farthing Wood'') and voice teacher. – Tim Heald, 72, author and journalist.
22 November – Craig Gill, 44, rock drummer (Inspiral Carpets).
23 November – Joe Lennon, 80–81, Gaelic footballer (Down). – Andrew Sachs, 86, actor (''Fawlty Towers'', ''Coronation Street'', ''Hitler: The Last Ten Days'').
24 November – Michael Abbensetts, 78, playwright. – Paul Futcher, 60, footballer (Manchester City, Barnsley, Grimsby Town).
25 November – David Hamilton, 83, photographer. – Margaret Rhodes, 91, writer and cousin of Elizabeth II. – Thomas Taylor, Baron Taylor of Blackburn, 87, Labour politician.
26 November – David Provan, 75, footballer (Rangers, Crystal Palace).
27 November – Bernard Gallagher, 87, actor (''Casualty'', ''Crown Court'', ''Downton Abbey''). – Valerie Gaunt, 84, actress (''The Curse of Frankenstein'', ''Dracula''). – John Mansfield, 108, oldest man in the United Kingdom.
28 November – Sir John Swire, 89, businessman (Swire Group).
29 November – Joe Dever, 60, author (''Lone Wolf''). – Duncan B. Forrester, 83, theologian. – Norman Oakley, 77, footballer (Hartlepool United, Doncaster Rovers, Grimsby Town).
30 November – Leonard of Mayfair, 78, hairdresser.

===December===
1 December – Micky Fitz, punk singer (The Business). – Barry Lloyd, 63, cricketer (Glamorgan).
2 December – Coral Atkins, 80, actress (''A Family at War'', ''Emmerdale''). – Jean Stead, 90, journalist (''The Guardian'').
3 December – Arthur Latham, 86, politician, MP for Paddington North (1969–1974) and Paddington (1974–1979), Leader of the London Borough of Havering (1990–1996).
4 December – Lady Moyra Browne, 98, nursing administrator. – Peter Latham, 91, air marshal. – Patricia Robins, 95, novelist.
6 December – Dave MacLaren, 82, football player and manager (Plymouth Argyle). – Peter Vaughan, 93, actor (''Game of Thrones'', ''Porridge'', ''Brazil'').
7 December – Brian Bulless, 83, footballer (Hull City). – Ian Cartwright, 52, footballer (Wolverhampton Wanderers). – Alex Johnstone, 55, politician, MSP for North East Scotland (since 1999). – Greg Lake, 69, singer and musician (King Crimson, ELP). – Helen Roseveare, 91, Christian missionary. – Romilly Squire of Rubislaw, 63, heraldic artist. – Allan Stewart, 74, politician, MP for East Renfrewshire (1979–1983), and Eastwood (1983–1997).
8 December – Gareth Griffiths, 85, rugby union player (Cardiff, Wales). – Peter Jackson, 90, animal conservationist and journalist. – Dame Sheila Quinn, 96, nurse, President of the Royal College of Nursing (1982–1986). – Fred Secombe, 98, Church in Wales priest and writer. – Sir Alan Urwick, 86, diplomat and public servant, Ambassador to Egypt (1985–1987), High Commissioner to Canada (1987–1989), Serjeant-at-Arms of the House of Commons (1989–1995).
10 December – Peter Brabrook, 79, footballer. – A. A. Gill, 62, writer and restaurant critic (''The Sunday Times''). – Ian McCaskill, 78, television weatherman and meteorologist. – Tommy McCulloch, 82, footballer (Clyde).
11 December – Valerie Gell, 71, singer and guitarist (The Liverbirds). – Charlie McNeil, 53, footballer (Stirling Albion). – John Moffat, 97, Royal Navy pilot during the Second World War and veteran of the sinking of the ''Bismarck''. – Michael Nicholson, 79, journalist and war correspondent.
12 December – Mark Fisher, 57, pop musician (Matt Bianco). – Gustav Jahoda, 96, psychologist. – Jim Prior, Baron Prior, 89, politician, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (1981–1984) and Employment (1979–1981). – Walter Swinburn, 55, jockey.
14 December – Bernard Fox, 89, actor (''Bewitched'', ''Titanic'', ''The Mummy''). – Sir Dudley Smith, 90, politician, MP for Brentford and Chiswick (1959–1966) and Warwick and Leamington (1968–1997). – Jeremy Summers, 85, film and television director.
15 December – Albert Bennett, 72, footballer (Rotherham United, Newcastle United, Norwich City). – Dave Shepherd, 87, jazz clarinetist.
18 December – Rachel Owen, 48, academic and printmaker. – Jack V. Lunzer, 92, industrial diamond merchant and museum curator (Valmadonna Trust Library).
19 December – Lionel Blue, 86, rabbi, journalist and broadcaster. – Annette Karmiloff-Smith, 78, neuroscientist. – Sir John Oakeley, 8th Baronet, 84, Olympic yachtsman (1972). – Christopher Young, 71, rugby league player (Hull Kingston Rovers, Great Britain).
20 December – Patrick Jenkin, Baron Jenkin of Roding, 90, politician, Secretary of State for Social Services (1979–1981), Industry (1981–1983), and Environment (1983–1985). – Dame Frances Patterson, 62, judge.
21 December – Deddie Davies, 78, actress (''The Railway Children'', ''Stella'') and musician (The Zimmers). – John Gwilliam, 93, rugby union player (Wales). – Bob Jeffery, 81, Anglican priest, Dean of Worcester (1987–1996). – Nigel Nicholls, 78, civil servant, Clerk of the Privy Council (1992–1998).
22 December – John Buckingham, 76, jockey. – Philip Saville, 86, actor, television director and screenwriter.
23 December – John Aitchison, 90, statistician. – Robert Hinde, 93, zoologist, Master of St John's College, Cambridge (1989–1994). – Piers Sellers, 61, astronaut and meteorologist. – George Thompson, 88, politician, MP for Galloway (1974–1979).
24 December – Richard Adams, 96, author (''Watership Down'', ''The Plague Dogs'', ''Shardik''). – Rick Parfitt, 68, singer, songwriter and guitarist (Status Quo). – Liz Smith, 95, actress (''The Royle Family'', ''I Didn't Know You Cared'', ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'').
25 December – Lady Marion Fraser, 84, music educator. – John Sedgwick Gregson, 92, George Cross recipient. – George Michael, 53, singer (Wham!) and songwriter ("Careless Whisper", "Last Christmas", "Faith"). – John Nike, 81, businessman.
26 December – Mary Wondrausch, 93, artist and potter.
29 December – Matt Carragher, 40, footballer (Wigan, Port Vale). – John Kelly, 84, boxer. – Norman Rimmington, 93, footballer (Hartlepool, Barnsley).
30 December – Allan Williams, 86, businessman and promoter (The Beatles). – Tommy Wisbey, 86, criminal, participant in the Great Train Robbery.
31 December – Sir Dennis Faulkner, 90, officer in the Royal Navy.
